#summary This atricle describes how to compile the Xilinx ieee_proposed libraries for ModelSim
#labels Phase-Support

= Introduction =

In order to get System#-generated files simulated with Mentor ModelSim it is necessary to compile the `ieee_proposed` library (we'll need `fixed_pkg` and `float_pkg`) which is distributed with Xilinx ISE. Forthermore, we need to add the compiled project as a global library mapping to ModelSim. Please note that ModelSim contains some `fixed_pkg` and `float_pkg` as well - however, they are not compatible with System#.

This procedure was tested with Mentor ModelSim SE 6.5e and Xilinx ISE 13.2. Different tool versions should behave similarly. You are kindly requested to tell us your experiences.


= Details =

  # Start ModelSim and create a new project. Name the project `floatfixlib` and enter `ieee_proposed` as default library name. You can choose any project location which is convenient for you. We recommend to use a folder name similar to `C:\Xilinx\13.2\ISE_DS\ISE\vhdl\mti_se\6.5e\nt64\ieee_proposed`.
  # Add the following files to the project: `fixed_float_types_c.vhd`, `fixed_pkg_c.vhd`, `float_pkg_c.vhd`. You'll find them in a folder silimar to `C:\Xilinx\13.2\ISE_DS\ISE\vhdl\src\ieee_proposed`.
  # From the ModelSim menu bar, select _Compile_, _Compile Order..._. In the dialog which pops up, click _Auto Generate_.
  # Wait for the compilation, then close the project.
  # In the ModelSim _Library_ window, right click and choose _New_, _Library..._ from the context menu.
  # Select _a map to an existing library_. For the library name, enter `ieee_proposed`. For _Library maps to_, browse to the location of the project you created. Click _Ok_.
  # That's all folks.